CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Contributing
This repository is provided as a sample and is not yet accepting contributions.
In the near future, we hope to clear the necessary legalese to accept contributions so that this repository
can fulfill its purpose as a community effort for Keycloak practitioners in health IT.

### Merge approval

All changes to the `main` branch must be approved by one or more project maintainer.

For a list of project maintainers, see the [MAINTAINERS.md](MAINTAINERS.md) page.
We are always looking for additional maintainers, so please contact us if you are interest in helping to drive the project forward.

## Legal

Each source file must include a license header for the Apache
Software License 2.0. Using the SPDX format is the simplest approach.

```
/*
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2021

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
*/
```

## Communication
Connect with us on [chat.fhir.org](https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179170-smart/topic/Keycloak.20for.20SMART.20authz)
or open an [issue](https://github.com/Alvearie/keycloak-extensions-for-fhir/issues).

## Setup
**FIXME** Please add any special setup instructions for your project to help the developer
become productive quickly.

## Testing
**FIXME** Please provide information that helps the developer test any changes they make
before submitting.

## Coding style guidelines
**FIXME** Optional, but recommended: please share any specific style guidelines you might
have for your project.

Commit message:

Indicate that the project is now ready for contributions

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Contributing
Our project welcomes contributions. If you have an itch, please scratch it.

### Communication
Connect with us on [chat.fhir.org](https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179170-smart/topic/Keycloak.20for.20SMART.20authz)
or open an [issue](https://github.com/Alvearie/keycloak-extensions-for-fhir/issues).

### Legal
Each source file should include a copyright statement and must include a link to the Apache
Software License 2.0. Using the SPDX format is the simplest approach:

```
/*
(C) Copyright <your name or company name here> 2021

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
*/
```

Or, if modifying an existing file:
```
/*
(C) Copyright <original copyright holder> and others 2021

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
*/
```

### Merge approval
All changes to the `main` branch must be approved by one or more project maintainer.

For a list of project maintainers, see the [MAINTAINERS.md](MAINTAINERS.md) page.
We are always looking for additional maintainers, so please contact us if you are interest in helping to drive the project forward.

## Setup
**FIXME** Please add any special setup instructions for your project to help the developer
become productive quickly.

## Testing
**FIXME** Please provide information that helps the developer test any changes they make
before submitting.

## Coding style guidelines
**FIXME** Optional, but recommended: please share any specific style guidelines you might
have for your project.
